---
title: This guy is a freakin genius
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2004-11-24T04:04:36+00:00
url: /?p=16683
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Iron-Man-II-Tony-Stark-1568x666.jpg
categories:
  - Australia
  - Melbourne

---
<div class="post">
  <h3 class="post-title">
  </h3>
  
  <div class="post-body">
    <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20041127130703/http://www.benheck.com/">The Official Site of Benjamin J Heckendorn</a><br /> I stumbled onto Ben&#8217;s site somehow (don&#8217;t ask me how &#8211; I&#8217;m drunk) and I&#8217;ve decided that <em>I want to be just like him</em>. Since that&#8217;s never going to happen, I want to instead place his work on a pedestal and use it as inspiration for my own &#8211; he&#8217;s a freakin&#8217; genius!<br /> In case you don&#8217;t want to look at the site, he takes game consoles (playstation 1 and 2, ataris, whatever) and converts them into handheld portable excitement stations. They run on batteries. They have a built-in screen. Quite often the game &#8211; CD or cartridge &#8211; pokes out menacingly from the back of the unit. <em>But who cares when you can impress ladies and influence strangers with the power of portables</em>?? Anyway, it seems that Ben has been doing this kind of thing for some time, and he&#8217;s released a book describing how to make your own (I wonder where I can find that one?), definitely worth checking out if you&#8217;re into this stuff.<br /> Which I&#8217;m not, but really wish I was. (Oh how I wish &#8230;) I&#8217;ve got the tools, sort of &#8211; a soldering iron and a dremel, what more could you need? &#8211; but not the learning (we studied electronics at Uni, but it wasn&#8217;t thorough enough to stick). So I&#8217;m stuck in that place where I really want to do electronic stuff, but I&#8217;m afraid I&#8217;ll be wasting my time or money, and will most likely end up electrocuting myself or someone like me. In the past, I bought a multimeter kit from Dick Smith (or something) &#8230; of course I couldn&#8217;t finish it, and ended up losing the components and never tackling it again. Was it too much for me? Probably. Has that dissuaded me? Not at all &#8211; I&#8217;ve since bought a (much smaller, easier) radio transmitter kit to build, not for any reason but the experience. I&#8217;ve always thought I could learn things, but you have to crawl before you run a marathon (bad analogy is my forté) so I&#8217;m completely prepared to fsck this kit up too &#8211; I&#8217;ll get it right eventually. And then I&#8217;ll be turning things into portables, just like Ben Heckendorn (but with less hair).<br /> There are a couple of electronic projects that I want to get going sometime between now and never. The radio transmitter kit is the first, yes, but then I want to build a proper high (-ish) fidelity stereo FM transmitter with a standard input jack, so I can (for example) plug an MP3/OGG player into it, then tune in on any radio &#8211; including but not exclusive to a car radio. Voila &#8211; cheap in-car MP3 player (and you don&#8217;t even need to take it out of your bag &#8230; once playing). I&#8217;ve seen the kit at Jaycar, so it shouldn&#8217;t be too hard to get done. After that, it&#8217;s all about home theatre PC gear. I&#8217;ve got a mini-ITX motherboard, and a case that can (in theory) fit everything &#8230; except that I need to take the power-supply PCB out of it&#8217;s happy steel case in order to fit it in. Chris thinks I&#8217;m going to electrocute myself, and I think Dee does too; they may be right, but I&#8217;ve got to <em>try</em>.<br /> I&#8217;ve found another<a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20041127130703/http://www.mastero.tk/"> PSU design on the web</a> that I&#8217;d like to try too &#8211; it was specifically designed for carputers, but it would work from a power-pack DC supply (which is what I really want. So once I&#8217;ve done the two radio transmitters, that should be the next project. Finally, I think I want to <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20041127130703/http://www.eyo.com.au/details_G-2677BK.html">buy a mini-ITX case</a>. It&#8217;s not an electronics project, but more of a fallback in case I can&#8217;t build the other cases or PSUs. It would also let me start playing with the appropriate software before I had to do anything outside my comfort zone.<br /> The real drive to all this? <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20041127130703/http://kiltedaussie.blogspot.com/">I want to have it all done by June 2005</a>.
  </div>
</div>
