---
title: Ahaṃkāra
created: '2015-05-24T18:55:36.000Z'
modified: '2019-04-14T08:05:03.377Z'
categories:
  - Philosophy
type: "term"
crosslink: "true"
---

**Ahaṃkāra** (अहंकार) is a [Sanskrit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sanskrit
"Sanskrit") term that is related to the ego and
[egoism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egotism "Egotism") \- that is, the
identification or attachment of one's ego. The term "ahamkara" comes from an
approximately 3,000 year-old [Vedic
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedic_philosophy "Vedic
philosophy"), where Ahaṃ refers to the concept of the Self or "I" and kāra
refers to the concept of "any created thing" or "to do". The term originated
in [Vedic philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedic_philosophy "Vedic
philosophy") over 3,000 years ago, and was later incorporated into [Hindu
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindu_philosophy "Hindu
philosophy"), particularly
[Saṃkhyā](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%E1%B9%83khy%C4%81 "Saṃkhyā")
philosophy.[[1]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahamkara#cite_note-1)

Ahamkara is one of the four parts of the
[antahkarana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antahkarana "Antahkarana") (inner
organ) described in [Hindu
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindu_philosophy "Hindu
philosophy"). The other three parts are
[Buddhi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddhi "Buddhi"),
[Citta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citta "Citta") and
[Manas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manas_\(early_Buddhism\) "Manas \(early
Buddhism\)"). In the [Uttara
Mimamsa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uttara_Mimamsa "Uttara Mimamsa") or
[vedanta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedanta "Vedanta") branch of [Hindu
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindu_philosophy "Hindu
philosophy"), even though it is not discussed in great detail in the [Bhagavad
Gita](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhagavad_Gita "Bhagavad Gita"), Lord
[Krishna](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Krishna "Krishna") says to Arjun that
ahamkara must be removed - in other words, it should be subordinated to the
lord. The reason for this is that the Self is not (cannot be) present when one
is in a state of ahamkara.

## Philosophical
implications[[edit](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ahamkara&action=edit&section=1
"Edit section: Philosophical implications")]

To have an understanding of this term means that we have a powerful tool for
understanding the nature and behaviour of ourselves and of others. The Vedic
philosophy taught that when one's mind was in a state of ahamkara, one was in
a state of subjective illusion, where the mind had bound up the concept of
one's self with a created thing. The created thing is usually a phenomenon
which can be thought of as external to the self. It could be a tangible,
concrete (material) thing - e.g., a motor car - or an intangible thing - e.g.,
such as a concept or idea (as in, for example, the concept of the fight for
peace). The ego is involved in constructing the illusion.

**Examples of ahaṃkāra in action:**

>   * Consider how an otherwise sensible young man might feel that his new
sports car was a reflection of his true self and this would encourage him to
race his car recklessly against another person's car.

>   * Similarly, consider how someone who believed in the fight for peace, and
who ordinarily might behave in a non-violent manner, might come to blows with
someone who threatened or challenged his notions of peace.

>

In both cases, the mind has created a state of illusion, but it seems very
real to the person in that state, and objectivity and reality are obscured.
This deeply illusory state is what can often cause people to do the strangest,
oddest things, sometimes evil, and often quite out of character. All humans
could - and usually do at some time or other in their lives - suffer from
this.

## Ahaṃkāra and spiritual development

>   * Ahaṃkāra is the instrument of [Ahaṃ (the
Spirit)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aham_\(Kashmir_Shaivism\) "Aham
\(Kashmir Shaivism\)"), the principle of individuation, acting as an
independent conscious entity within the impure reality - yet, it does not have
consciousness of its own.

>   * Ahamkara is (actually soul/ego-soul) the instrument of the spirit (made
by thought-material='dark energy' & emotion-material='dark material') for
individual development of the ego-soul, like DEHA (material-body/mold) is the
instrument for individual development of the ego-soul/mind.

>   * It is a receptacle of Cit śakti, its consciousness being a small spark
from Cit, the universal consciousness.

>   * manifests itself by assuming authorship of all the actions of buddhi,
manas, the senses and organs of action.

>   * It is believed to exist in the sphere of duality, in a state of
identification with the physical body, its needs and desires.

>   * It is related to _Vak tattva_ , one of [The 36
tattvas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_36_tattvas "The 36 tattvas") in
Vedic and Hindu religious philosophy.

>   * In ahaṃkāra, a state of _rajas guna_ (agitation) predominates. This is
because it identifies only with a small part of the creation (the body) and
rejects everything else as  "not me"; it becomes subject to a series of
afflictions such as: pride, egoism, competitiveness, hate and jealousy.

>

Though ahaṃkāra is generally a state of illusion, once in that state, _Vak
tattva_ (one of the 36 tattvas) can appear. When it does, then, for the first
time, individual will, determination, a sense of morality and ethics come into
play - which is the first step on the path to spiritual
development/enlightenment. Without a sufficiently harmonious and powerful
ahaṃkāra (personality), it is thought to be impossible to exert the level of
effort necessary to accede to a higher spiritual level. The position of
ahaṃkāra and buddhi are sometimes presented in reversed order because, as the
principle of  "I-ness", ahaṃkāra is allowed control over the manas (sensorial
mind) and buddhi (superior intellect, intuition). Yet, buddhi is a superior
tattva, and ahaṃkāra is thus only able to be in a superior position to buddhi
from a functional point of view. From an absolute point of view, ahaṃkāra is
created by buddhi and thus subordinate to it.
