---
title: Purpose
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2007-11-01T13:55:53+00:00
url: /?p=186
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - no
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
I was given a copy of R. Buckminster Fuller&#8217;s &#8220;Critical Path&#8221; for my birthday recently (thanks!) and I&#8217;ve been reading it again and thinking about the concept of &#8220;purpose&#8221; as it relates to a human life in an &#8220;&#8230; eternally regenerative Universe &#8230;&#8221; which &#8220;&#8230; does not depend on us, [as we] are not the only experiment.&#8221; I absolutely agree with the idea that &#8220;&#8230; What humans have spontaneously identified as good and bad — or as positive and negative — are evolutionary complementations in need of more accurate identifications. [There] are no &#8216;good&#8217; or &#8216;bad&#8217; people, no matter how offensive or eccentric to society they may seem.&#8221;
  
So the question is: are you a directly positive influence on the evolution of the wholly-regenerative Universe, or is the positive effect you have on the Universe just a side-effect of your unknowingly correct, inevitably positive actions? A violent criminal can be a positive influence if he (or she!) causes someone else to invent ways to lessen violence; the age old &#8220;reason&#8221; for evil &#8211; that we may rise above it. Does your life just serve as a bad example?
  
Actually, the &#8220;reason for evil&#8221; argument is flawed, because there is no proof that &#8220;evil&#8221; (things happening to individuals and groups that hurt and/or upset the people) is the only way to promote &#8220;good&#8221; (people lessening, stopping or providing comfort against hurtful things). It is altogether possible that a loving community would spontaneously arise in the midst of a happy existence, and be &#8220;stronger&#8221; than the community that bonds together against a common enemy/evil. Depending on your definition of &#8220;stronger&#8221;, of course.
  
Anyway, the point is you can either be a positive influence in spite of your actions, or because of them &#8211; and &#8220;because of them&#8221; is both more efficient for the &#8220;system&#8221; (an eternally regenerative Universe) and likely to lead to greater personal happiness, as you have truly found your &#8220;purpose&#8221;. And when you do that, or move towards it, things seem to just gel (it may be a purely mental state, with your pattern-recognition engine noticing anything and everything that moves you closer to your stated purpose).
  
I&#8217;m trying to move towards my own chosen purpose now, and finding exactly as stated above: things just _work_ when I actively pursue it (even if it&#8217;s just trying to discover what to pursue), and I notice things every day which can help me. To quote Bucky one last time:
  
&#8220;**The Things to do are: the things that need doing, that _you_ see need to be done, and that no one else seems to see need to be done.** Then you will conceive your own way of doing that which needs to be done — that no one else has told you to do or how to do it. This will bring out the real you that often gets buried inside a character that has acquired a superficial array of behaviors induced or imposed by others on the individual.&#8221;
