---
title: Cold snap
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2011-05-12T14:35:45+00:00
url: /?p=586
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A cold morning this morning, the coldest we&#8217;ve had since we moved into our little mountain retreat: the rain woke us, hammering on the tin-roof with unrelenting percusive insistence, even before the Lucy-pup nosed under the covers to tell us, yes, she would like to go out for a pee now please. Cold enough to warrant a fire in the hearth, for the first morning ever &#8212; "I should&#8217;ve put another log on when I woke up," lamented Dee, whose bladder-pressing passenger neccessitates many a night-time trip to the bathroom, "kept it going from last night." It is a day for snuggling up on the couch (now we&#8217;ve bought one!), watching an old black-and-white movie, eating hot soup and drinking even hotter chocolate; shame, then, that I&#8217;ve got to work instead. 

Never mind: the reverse-cycle unit on the wall (and now-roaring fire) has brought the room temperature up to a balmy (ha!) 16.6 degrees, and I can always turn on the radiator downstairs &#8212; or put on more clothes. What, you don&#8217;t code in your underpants? Amateurs!

Our renovations are coming along slowly but steadily. After tearing down the separating wall in what is to be our room there was a lot of work to patch the holes &#8212; plasterboard, cornice cement and even a little carpentry &#8212; but that is just about finished and ready for painting now. We also took the opportunity to build a little hidden media closet in the wall under the wall-mounted flat-screen, which looks really good now (Dee wasn&#8217;t convinced initially, but loves the results). Yes, I love the geekery of home-"techorating": we&#8217;ve bought an Acer Aspire Revo from a Taiwainese eBay shop and will be configuring it as a full-HD media player and MythTV client (the TV server lives in the lab; it needs configuring too).

We still need to paint, and lay some floor-boards, but then our bedroom will be basically structurally done, with only small "features" left (interior doors rejuventated, door handles for the French doors and a surround-sound system of some kind). We&#8217;re hoping to get it done before "junior" arrives, which could be as soon as 7 weeks!

Slowly, slowly.
