---
title: January
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2014-01-24T09:42:40+00:00
url: /?p=1254
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Well January&#8217;s almost over and I&#8217;ve done just one run.
  
It may have been a coincidence, but I finished a run on the 1st of January with a smashing headache, and woke overnight bathed in sweat and running a fever that stayed with me for three days. At least I was running _something_, I suppose, but it put the end to my early start, that&#8217;s for sure. Instead, for the last month I&#8217;ve been focusing on 1) eating to lose bodyfat, and 2) being more active.
  
On the food front, we&#8217;ve both been thinking and talking about how our dinner time meals tend to suffer: we get home, get Jules from daycare, do shopping, blah blah blah &#8230;. and then neither of us can really be bothered making our own food. We thought we&#8217;d be able to do some preparatory cooking on weekends, but it&#8217;s just not happening.
  
Instead, we looked at Light &#8216;N&#8217; Easy &#8212; but with my stubborn hat on I stated that I was sticking to slow-carb, and most of the LNE meals have pasta, rice or potato mash. So I looked some more and found [Real Food Connection][1]: frozen food for oven-baking that is slow-carb compatible (and organic, and high protein) AND just down the street from us.
  
We checked them out that weekend, and so for the last two weeks we&#8217;ve been eating a selection of their meals. They taste good, all the nutrional info is available, are easy to prepare and compatible with my slow-carb shenanigans. What&#8217;s not love? Combined with a protein shake for breakfast and Thr1ve for lunch, I&#8217;m more true to the four-hour body thing than I&#8217;ve ever been.
  
And I feel it! The scales aren&#8217;t showing, but I (generally) feel more alert and awake, and food just isn&#8217;t a concern. Fuel, not fun. (I say &#8220;generally&#8221; because this week we had a couple of horrible nights&#8217; sleep &#8212; think squirmy baby boy between us &#8212; so yesterday I broke down and had a Nandos chicken burger. Back on the wagon today.)
  
I&#8217;ve also been cycling into work and home almost every day, which gets quite a sweat up. Tracking it on Endomondo, if anybody else wants to compare and contrast. Perfect, because cycling is actually the quickest  way in of a morning, including getting a taxi if the traffic is dire. I&#8217;m also tracking steps with the Fitbit, and have been aiming (but not always reaching) for 10,000 a day, as is the Fitbit norm. Thr1ve is a 15 minute walk at lunch time, which helps.
  
BUT the marathon is only 240 days away now (!!), so this weekend I&#8217;m getting back to my zero-to-10K running programme (there&#8217;s an app for that, after all). 10 weeks, which is 70 days if I stick with it (3 days a week), leaving 170 days to go from 10km to 42.195km &#8230;

 [1]: http://www.realfoodconnection.com.au/
