---
title: Roll on 2014
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2014-01-01T01:29:32+00:00
url: /?p=1198
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2014/01/IMG_2509-1568x882.jpg
categories:
  - Australia
  - Sydney
tags:
  - marathon

---
Happy new year! Good riddance to 2013 and roll on 2014, says I.
  
We celebrated with the Melrose clan (the Scots) by taking a picnic down to Bicentennial Park for the fireworks display &#8212; it&#8217;s the park right near our house, so not too far to go and we had a good view of the fireworks from both the Harbour Bridge and in Balmain. We also weren&#8217;t the only people with the same idea! Very family friendly: they even put on early fireworks (&#8220;fa th&#8217; wee wains&#8221;) at 9pm, after which Dee took Jules home to bed. He was kind of over the crowds and noise anyway. It was a pretty impressive show!
  
We had a few drinks, it must be said, but we also had a stack of sandwiches (Dee) and pastries (Dot) to help even our respective keels. We sat around on a blanket (ooh, which I need to pop in the washing machine! Red wine accident, thanks Rab) and chatted &#8212; me picking Andy&#8217;s brains on how to prep for a marathon, what kind of nutrition he uses before, during and afterwards, etc. Did I mention [I&#8217;m running the Sydney Marathon][1] this year? And Andy may fly back for it too (but he&#8217;s already run a marathon, so is already much, much more advanced than I am).
  
2013 wasn&#8217;t all bad for me personally, but it certainly had moments that felt like it was never going to end. To focus on the positive:

  * We sold our house!
  * [We moved to Sydney!][2]
  * Dee got a job!
  * [We won a prize!][3]

Some of the stuff I&#8217;m looking forward to this year includes:

  * Doing a lot of running!
  * Going snowboarding and/or skiing! (September, maybe?)

So that&#8217;s it! I&#8217;m going to have a look at the calendar to plan a visit (to Cockatoo, and Bendigo) but in the meantime feel free to update the blog!
  
<!--more-->

 [1]: http://six-month-challenge.blogspot.com.au/2013/12/prepping-for-strong-2014.html
 [2]: http://glennji.com/2013/04/18/854/
 [3]: http://glennji.com/2013/12/21/i-won-something/
