---
title: Xian
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2010-06-26T07:34:39+00:00
url: /?p=485
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A soft-sleeper from Beijing brought us to Xi&#8217;an, a Shaanxi city which has expanded past its ancient walls with the same flurry of activity and industry that we saw in the north. Once the capital-city of the region, Xian is now most famous for the discovery of the Terracotta Warriors nearby.
  
And admittedly, they are pretty cool. Row upon row of individual, life-sized statues inexplicably standing to attention in three covered (roofed & walled) pits. There are different ranks, different weapons, horses &#8230; apparently there are even the different &#8220;facial types&#8221; present in China at the time. I don&#8217;t believe anybody really knows why they were built, but one tour guide suggested that the emperor wanted to rule an army in the afterlife &#8212; I prefer the much more plausible hypothesis that an ancient army was turned to stone by a mountain shaman, and will one day fight again for the new emperor &#8230; feel a bit bad for the soldiers without heads, &#8216;though, not to mention those entirely destroyed.
  
Our hostel in Xian was nice, set in the last Ming-style (or is it Qing?) building in the city. As we opted for their most expensive room (to spoil ourselves), it was a proper little palace! Furthermore the grounds were home to three cute little kittens &#8212; funny, the Chinese word for cat is &#8220;mao&#8221; &#8212; who we nicknamed Black & White, White & Black and Little Lion. They would fight and play, as kittens do, and liked to sneak into our room and stretch out on the enormous bed&#8230;
  
That night there was a &#8220;dumpling party&#8221; in which we rolled dumplings (gyoza, is that Japanese?) into various different patterns and styles &#8212; or attempted to at least &#8212; under the watchful eyes of the locals. Once made they all went into a pan, were cooked and served up to us &#8230; for free! It was a good chance to chat to people, and we ended up having a bottle of wine with a couple of Aussies who had just travelled from Vietnam and Thailand.
