---
title: Palantir
author: glennji
type: post
date: 2012-07-31T05:35:02+00:00
url: /?p=688
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2012/07/32215763362_b62ef08e5f_b.jpg
categories:
  - Australia
  - Canberra
  - Melbourne

---
So, we&#8217;re well overdue an update. A lot has happened in the last couple of months, actually &#8212; let me explain and you might understand why I haven&#8217;t found time to post!
  
In my last update I mentioned I was speaking with a potential employer: good news there, I have landed a job with [Palantir][1], a Silicon Valley company based on a powerful intelligence-augmentation platform (or two!). From the website:

> <div class="row">
>   <div class="span12">
>     <blockquote class="quote2">
>       <p>
>         Palantir is inspired by a simple idea—that with the right technology and enough data, people can still solve hard problems and change the world for the better. For organizations addressing many of today’s most critical challenges, the necessary information is already out there, waiting to be understood. <em>We build technology that allows people to make sense of their data. Our software equips them with the intelligence they need for their missions to succeed.</em>
>       </p>
>     </blockquote>
>   </div>
> </div>

C&#8217;mon, how cool is that? So we create software that allows humans to make sense of vast data, sift through petabytes looking for patterns and connections, solving crimes and saving lives. Analysts have achieved some truly awe-inspiring things with the Palantir knowledge platform, and I&#8217;m very happy to join the team.
  
It was not an easy interview process. I can get into that later, I think.
  
Anyway, we took the job and will be moving to Canberra &#8212; just as soon as we get back from the United States! A week in Washington DC, now three in sunny California. Happily, Dee and Jules came to join me for this part of the trip, so on the weekend just gone we headed into San Francisco for Jules&#8217; birthday.
  
This really is my dream job. I&#8217;ll try to write more later, but for now, it&#8217;s time to drink root beer and chill out.

 [1]: https://www.palantir.com/
